h1. Designer dotfiles

Some simple dotfiles for improving Mac user experience for users who will not generally be on the command line.

This file will configure a number of settings all at once, meaning that a fresh install can be quickly configured to what best suits your workflow, without having to manually configure all your settings.

Improvements include:
* allowing text selection when in quick look
* show remaining battery time
* speed up some interactions like opening and closing windows / applications
* always show the expanded save panel
* always show the expanded print panel
* close the print dialog once printing is done
* prevent the irritating "Are you sure message" when opening downloaded files
* check for updates daily
* allow tabbing through options in dialogs
* allow zooming with ctrl + scroll
* disable shadow in screenshots
* show hard drives and external drives on your desktop
* show all filename extensions
* prevent .DS_Store from being created on network volumes
* open Finder when an external volumes are mounted
* prevent Time Machine from asking to use new drives for backups
* reveal your desktop by moving your mouse to the bottom left corner of the screen
* and many more!

Make sure to read through all the comments in the ".osx":https://github.com/larrybotha/designer-dotfiles/blob/master/.osx file to see what options are available, and which you would like to disable or modify.

h2. Usage

If you're more into design, and less into dabbling in code, do the following to configure your mac as per the defaults:

# show hidden files on your computer:
## open Terminal from your Applications folder
## type the following and press enter @defaults write com.apple.finder AppleShowAllFiles -bool true && killall Finder@
## your Finder and desktop will refresh with the new setting
## hidden files are now displayed in your Finder with semi-transparent icons and text
# download the .osx file from this repo -> https://github.com/larrybotha/designer-dotfiles/archive/master.zip
# place the file in your home folder (where you find your 'Downloads', 'Documents', and 'Applications' folders
## in Finder, go to Macintosh HD -> Users -> [Your Computer Name]
## paste the file here
# in Terminal:
## type @cd@ then
## press `enter` to make sure you're in the correct directory
# type @./.osx@ and press enter to update your settings
# enter your password and press 'enter' (Terminal will not show that anything is being typed... don't worry, it is!)
# wait for confirmation that your settings have been updated
# to hide the files that we revealed in step 1
## open Terminal
## type the following and press enter @defaults write com.apple.finder AppleShowAllFiles -bool false && killall Finder@
## your Finder and desktop will refresh with the new setting
# close Terminal and enjoy!

For all the geeks out there - you should look into more fully fledged dotfile configurations. http://mths.be/dotfiles is a great place to start.

h2. Custom Settings

All of the settings in .osx are accompanied by comments to describe what the settings do. 

A comment is always written with a @#@ in front of it, and will not be run when making updates.

If you would like to change any of the settings, open .osx in Text Edit, and either comment out, delete, or modify the relevant setting. Save and then update with the steps above.

You can rerun the update as many times as you wish if you would like to experiment with your settings.

h3. Disclaimer

Please note that installation of these files should be done at your own discretion. All these settings may be reversed (some may require a little Googling, most can be reversed by replacing a @true@ with a @false@ or vice versa) or modified after an initial configuration. By running a file found in this repo, you accept that I am not in anyway responsible for any damages that may occur to you, your computer, or your pets.

h3. Licence

MIT: http://larrybotha.mit-license.org/
